---
author: kilbot
date: -0001-11-30 00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
title: 'Geobiog'
type: post
url: /-0001/11/30/geobiog/
type: holographic-projection
hologram: 
categories:
- WorkSpace
---

**The GeoBiog**

A GeoBiog is an attempt to draw together the internal non-temporal landscape of a personal history and the changing world of the physical in which these histories have played (and are playing) out in. Everyone is familiar with the way in which the the non-linear, holographic structures of memory throw up in complete randomness images, sounds, smells, tastes and feelings. These phenomena form the everyday fabric of the mind and conscious control does not impact on their frequency, variety or appropriateness. Of interest to me is the way in which these snippets of sensory ephemera vomit up from the vast historical repository of materials stored in the mind. Of particular interest is the type and flavour of the snippets thrown into the present, and especially the repetition and frequency of certain distinct sensoria. These memoryforms via their historical positioning, both emotively and geographically, have a place and most I think, definitely a shape, this is a GeoBiog.

A GeoBiog can take on any criteria you wish, over any duration and dealing with any set of experiences. The GeoBiog requires two distinct information sets:

1. A number of personal memory critieria (memcrits), these can be visuals, sounds, anything at all as long they are locatable by era and by place.
2. A GPS device to pinpoint the exact geoloc of the memcrit.

However, the resultant map, whilst displayable, is typically graphically unremarkable; merely a messy cats cradle on a Google map. Therefore, what medium is best applicable for showing this quasi-physical representation of memory and feeling? I'm not sure, but a more nuanced medium is needed...
