---
title: 'Work makes you free'
date: Tue, 05 Feb 2008 21:31:17 +0000
draft: true
tags: ['WorkSpace']
---

In some respects, the work place is a great forum for discussions that otherwise would perhaps go by the wayside, either by dint of more interesting subjects, because your RL can sometimes be proscribed by other more important (read, more distracting) events; or basically because they are socially verboten outside of the labour creche. Basically, a work lull _(or day as they can be otherwise known)_ is a fertile ground for almost any subject matter to get an airing. Furthermore, if you happen to be encumbered by some sort of irksome moralistic leanings about certain subjects (sexuality, immigration, socio-economic positioning, etc.), then the temporary ideological freedom of the work space means your day can be transformed from an arid, mundane endurance slog into a vibrant and fecund area of (dis)agreeance. This grubby free-for-all can turn any mild mannered social adherent into a water cooler menace; randomly regurgitating snippets from Newsnight and The Sun alike. The 'burb dwelling peaceful middle class bovine can, agitated beyond caring by Kafkaesque management manoeuvrings, snap at any moment, shattering decades-long hard won refinement with blundering moves into risky areas, otherwise populated by an effortless cadre of thoughtless pricks, who numbers are legion. Fuck it though, go to work, have a chat, let your little strutting red dog out for a run. Precious indeed, is the curiously paradoxical world of the institutionalised work place, simultaneously allowing extensive behavioural freedom, but yet fettered by that same permissive familiarity. For example, I hold dear the ability to call you a cunt with impunity but I have to shuffle up and down the same strip of foetid carpet to make my tea (_doesn't a cuppa break up the day_)...I will return the favour by pretending not to hear when I hear yet another anachronistic outburst of seventies racism.